okay let's dive
in where has the time gone one more week
to go um we are going to talk this
morning about the final
project um we'll go through the actual
document my apologies a little boring to
read along together but I just want to
make sure we're all literally and
metaphorically on the same
page okay let's do that now actually um
so there are two components of your
final project both of which are due to
be submitted on bright space uh a little
less than a week from now by Monday by
11:59 p.m. you're submitting two uh
elements to Bright space a written
report covering what you did for your
final project and a 2 and a half minute
YouTube video which is going to be your
oral presentation which you will talk
over and narrate live here at class
starting at 7:30 in the morning next
Tuesday again I don't pick the exam
times so apologies for that okay so um
by 11:59 p.m. on Monday please find in
bright space the written report
submission and you will be uploading one
PDF document please make sure it's a PDF
document minimum length four pages
double space 12o uh font and in that
written uh in that written report you're
going to review the results of your AB
testing for us so what are you currently
doing hopefully what you are currently
doing now is testing two versions of
your uh of your final project variant a
and variant B and you are looking for
one of three possible outcomes by next
Monday at 11:59 p.m. either you're going
to have evidence to support the fact
that a is better than b or you're going
to have evidence that b is better than a
or you're going to have evidence that
there is no difference between a and b I
hope for you you don't get the fourth
outcome which is here's how Fitness
improved with variant a and here's how
Fitness improved with variant B is a
better than b b better than a no
difference who knows so what whatever it
is you're doing between now and Monday
make sure that you collect sufficient
data to try and prove one of those three
outcomes okay let's imagine maybe this
morning this is the data that you
currently have in hand you've done one
run of the parallel hill climber or the
hill climber or whatever evolutionary
algorithm you have and you have Fitness
plotted of the parent in the population
or parents in the population over some
number of generations and you've got
Fitness on the vertical axis for you
maybe a greater value of Fitness is
better perhaps a lower value of Fitness
is better doesn't really
matter what do you do if this is the
current result you have you've done one
evolutionary run of a one evolutionary
run of B and you're currently sitting in
the fourth box which we don't want you
to be in which is you don't know whether
a is better than b b is better than b or
there's
difference hopefully this is a
no-brainer for longer run it for longer
okay now
what did you just change
something we could change something then
you'd have C on your hands we're still
trying to test a and b you run it more
time run it more times yeah so hopefully
at this point you your final project
doesn't require too much brain power
from you just collect more data but it's
a good question what kind of more data
is useful you could run it for longer
you could go back and do a second run of
variant
a sorry a second run of a so starting
from an A different initial random
population of robots you evolve a again
now you've got one run of a a second run
of a one run of B we do another run of
B and get
this is a better than b is B better than
a there's no difference between them or
fourth outcome we don't yet
know we don't know we don't know yet so
what do we
do let's do run night run here's a third
run of b a third run of a just collect
more and more replicates I realize not
everybody has the same uh laptop with
computational ability so it's not
perhaps not immediately clear how much
data you can collect assuming you have a
relatively robust laptop you can set it
up to collect data overnight how many
nights are there between now and Monday
that's how many runs you can get
how many generations do you run things
for it may be that at the beginning
there's clearly no difference but with
enough data you start to see that in
general a tends to be better than B I
cannot tell you it depends on what your
A and B is it depends on what your
evolutionary algorithm is it depends on
how hard your Fitness function is
difficulty meaning how difficult is it
for the evolutionary algorithm to start
to make progress uh on your on your
Fitness task if you're not sure come and
see me or the TA later this week and we
can talk about it that's what you're
currently doing okay so that's what I
mean in the document by you are
currently performing AB testing by
performing multiple runs of A and B
allowing each to run for the same number
of generations when you eventually try
and defend the claim next week that a is
better than b for example in this case a
is better than
b uh we want to have the same population
size and the same number of generations
you want to have allowed The
evolutionary algorithm the same amount
of computational effort for a as it had
for B right that's fair if we ran B for
twice as many generations that's a
little bit of an unfair Advantage for
your variant
B okay uh you're then going to generate
visualizations to try and Visually prove
to us which if either variant produced
better robots this is not a statistics
class so you don't necessarily need to
provide eror bars or confidence
intervals if you know what those are
that's a statistical method for really
strengthening your claim that one group
is doing better than another a set of
Fitness curves where we can see that
generally a tends to do better than b
for example this would be visual proof
of what whatever your claim is assuming
you have enough data yeah okay all right
so that's that's generally what we're
looking for as you're performing your AB
testing this week I suggest you write
your written report along with your uh
your collection of data so you're not
writing your written report all at the
end your report should contain four
sections about one page per section
points will be deducted for poor writing
quality we want to make sure you
communicate your ideas clearly to us
okay let's go through these four
sections first section should describe
your goals what projects or projects did
you tackle during the deliverables how
did you create a and b from that project
what was the question you tried to
answer in my cartoon example here for me
perhaps a was the
quadraped that you have at the end of
assignment 10 and maybe B was a hexapod
and I wanted to see which one could my
evolutionary algorithm evolve a faster
gate for when we finish reading the
first page of your report it should be
pretty clear to us What A and B is it
should be pretty clear to us that it's a
fair comparison between A and
B when I created my hexapod I could have
created my hexapod to be 10 times the
size of the
quadruped when I evolve controllers for
that quadruped and that hexapod guess
which one's going to going to do
better the hexapod because it's 10 times
the size it's more likely to cover more
ground that's an unfair comparison so
when you're describing to us what your A
and B variants are how much detail do
you give us you give us enough detail to
understand what A and B is and you give
us enough information about variant A
and B to hopefully for us to conclude
that it's a fair
comparison make sense
okay second section or a second page
should describe implementation details
how did you code up your deliverables
and your a Tob test what was your
strategy please here describe in words
do not copy and paste code Snippets yeah
for some of you this implementation
details might be relatively
straightforward so in my case I added
two legs both legs had the same number
of degrees of freedom as the legs in the
quadraped each of the two joints in each
of the two additional legs in the
hexapod have the same joint axes as the
as each leg in the quadrip it's not
going to take me a page to describe all
that for some of you your variant a andb
requires more explanation you're going
to need at least a page to describe it
we're not necessarily looking for
exactly a page of implementation detail
if it's less than a page you can provide
us with more detail in some of the other
sections
okay third section third page should
provide some results from your ab test
most importantly you should demonstrate
that Evolution did in fact occur show
that an evolved robot did better than a
randomly generated robot that's the
first piece of evidence we want to see
in your results have a look at my
cartoon example here did Evolution
occur did the quadruped evolve
to move further than random randomly
generated controllers for a I see a lot
of you nodding your heads how do you
know what is it about this picture
that's convincing you that Evolution did
in fact occur Fitness value Fitness
value went up right how much does it
need to go up in order for us to
conclude that again that's up to you the
more replicates you have of your runs
the easier it is to see you might get
into a situation where it's very ult for
evolution to make progress you might get
a fitness curve that looks like this did
Evolution occur hard to say you do a
bunch of
runs and if they all tend to look like
this this means that yes there was a
little bit of evolutionary Improvement
it wasn't much but there was some right
this difference Here is known as the
effect size and
statistics so if your effect size is
small meaning it's hard in your case for
your evolutionary algorithm to increase
Fitness you're going to need to collect
more data to prove to us that Evolution
did in fact occur
alternatively If evolution is able to
make quite a bit of progress you don't
need a lot many replicates to be able to
prove that Evolution did in fact occur
so many of you have asked myself in the
TA how many replicates of a and b or how
many runs of A and B I need to do our
answer is always we don't know it
depends on what your final project is
okay so that's the first thing we're
looking for in your uh
results then we want to see did one
variant do better than another or did
both produce about the same quality uh
of robot or same quality of behavior
okay so what we've been drawing here
Fitness curves how Fitness changes over
evolutionary time this is probably a
necessity this is is something we're
going to want to see you can in
additionally include some of the many
other ways of visualizing what your
evolutionary algorithm did that we've
seen throughout this course when we talk
in the lecture on legged Locomotion we
looked at one of my old projects where I
included some Fitness graphs which which
didn't show how Behavior improved over
evolutionary time it showed what
evolution produced what what did the
gate actually look like uh in those
legged robots we saw some philogenetic
trees so this shows in a PO an evolving
population of robots how are they
related are there different species that
evolve are there Extinction events that
occur how much variation is there in the
behavior or possibly the morphologies of
the robots in your evolving
population okay visualizations of how uh
robots evolved in one environment due
when they're exposed to new environments
some of you are evolving your robots
over flat ground and then transferring
it into environment in which there are
obstacles on the ground or there's
rugged terrain how would you visualize
that uh how would you visualize
robustness how well or how poorly do
evolv robots evolved in one environment
do when they're exposed to a new unseen
environment
okay and because we're roboticist we
love to see cool screenshots of your
robots what they look like how they move
also fine these are all these are all
optional visualizations I would consider
Fitness curves necessary it's going to
be hard for you to prove what we want to
see in this section without Fitness
graphs for those of you that are
comfortable with Statistics and know how
to compute confidence intervals and P
values knock yourself out we're happy to
to review those those as well if you
don't know what A P value is you don't
know what confidence intervals are
that's fine we're not expecting it try
and convince us with more
data in origin of the species Charles
Darwin there is no P value anywhere
there is no Fitness curve in that book
anywhere how did Darwin convince us
about what was going on out
there hopefully some of you have
actually read the book a lot of
anecdotal evidence a lot of anecdotal
evidence when in doubt drown the reader
which in this case is me or the TA in
data the more data the better yeah
okay okay like I said grades will be
detu deducted if it's unclear whether a
was better than b b was better than a
and there was no difference between A
and B I'm sorry I realize I'm being
repetitive here we want we don't we
don't want you to try and get the
quadrad to do better than in the hexapod
that's not the game we're playing here
you're trying to reduce the chance that
you're going to end up with uncertainty
at the end I don't
know all good any questions about any of
that okay fourth and final section uh of
your written report you're going to
verbally demonstrate to us that you
thought carefully about your
deliverables and your ab test what was
surprisingly difficult what was
surprisingly easy what did you learn
along the way of your final Pro project
about physics engines evolutionary
algorithms how to conduct an A A Tob
test tell us what you learned uh I
realize some of you are taking other
courses there are other things that are
impinging on your time and attention and
possibly on the computational resources
of your laptop so we're taking all of
your work with a grain of salt but if
you did have another year to work on
this project and I gave you access to
the
supercomputer what would you do with it
how would you take your initial test and
redo it in a better way with more data
what did you learn how would you do it
better the next time what new features
would you want in pyro Sim to make
things easier again you're not using the
most high-powered physics engine so a
lot of you had ideas that were difficult
to embody in the physics engine you had
available what aspects of this
hypothetical expanded project do you
think would be relatively easy and which
would be
difficult okay that's what we're looking
for in the written report any
questions uh what style does it have to
be like do we have to write it like
paper style H uh not paper style the
format that's written here that's all we
want to see okay yep doesn't M latch
Word document doesn't doesn't matter
formatting but at the end we want a four
page PDF double space 12o font if you
run long that's okay okay we're happy to
grade a five-page PDF a six-page PDF
please don't send us a 20page PDF Fria
and myself also have a lot of things
going on next week keep it within reason
speaking of paper formats I will say
that I've seen uh several weekly reports
that look like they could become actual
new results that have not yet been
reported in the robotics literature if
you think you have something like that
on your hands uh come and see me you
might also see an email coming from me
or fra indicating we think you might
have a paper on your hands we would love
to help you expand some of your your
final projects into actual Publications
over the summer or next fall if you're
still going to be here um we're happy to
do that let us
know okay there are 60 final projects so
it's hard for us to keep track of
everything that's going on if you think
you have something promising let us know
okay written report worth 7% of your
final grade second part is the oral
presentation which is also worth 7% of
your final grade the YouTube video which
is the tangible part of your oral
presentation you need to submit it to
Bright Space by 11:59 p.m. next Monday
okay what are you submitting to Bright
space you're submitting a URL that is
going to point to a public YouTube video
it needs to be public at least for
Monday night night and Tuesday morning
so that we can stitch it into a YouTube
playlist and that playlist will play
here in class Tuesday morning okay there
are 60 of you in this class we have 2
hours and 45 minutes on Tuesday morning
for the final exam period that means
each and every one of you has no more
than 2 minutes and 30 seconds to orally
present what you've been doing over the
last month not an easy thing to do okay
if it's 2 minutes and 23 seconds okay if
it's 2 minutes and 37 seconds okay if
it's 2 minutes and 41 seconds not okay
we got to get through 60 of these oral
presentations in 2 hours and 45 minutes
so my apologies in advance we're going
to be very strict with length limits
with your oral presentations Fair okay
all right so what are you going to be
putting into this 2 minute and 30C
YouTube video you're going to be
including four sections so do the math
that's not a lot of time for each of
these four sections these four sections
are going to correspond to the four
sections we just talked about in the
written
report okay and again part of the grade
for your oral presentation will be
Clarity of communication you are going
to be tempted to try and shoehorn as
much possible information as you can in
2 minutes and 30 seconds to the point
where when you present it orally here in
class no one's going to catch any of it
because you're going way too fast
Clarity of communication you can go back
and review what we just said in the four
sections we're just looking for those
things make sure those four basic
elements are in this 2 minute and 30
second video okay I'm not going to
repeat those four sections as a reminder
the third section is arguably the most
important one this is the results
section you're going to have to convince
Us in probably about 45 seconds or less
that Evolution occurred and that a is
better than b or B is better than b a or
there's no
difference in a video there's a much
better way to convince us of this
quickly than a fitness curve show
us uh show us uh show us a video of show
us a video of an evolved behavior and
show us a video of a random behavior and
even better show us the two videos and
don't tell us which is which if the
evolved behavior is clearly better than
the random behavior all of us should be
immediately able to see it in about 10
seconds or less right if you're evolving
jumping you know jumping when you see it
if you're evolving fast forward
Locomotion you know it when you see it
if you're evolving proning we'll know it
when we see it yeah so like in the
written report during this section
you're trying to convince us visually
that Evolution actually worked The
evolutionary algorithm was able to
improve F uh Fitness better to show us
with a video than a static plot
okay same thing uh same thing when you
then try and convince us about A and B
show us another pair of videos which is
your best evolved a and your best
evolved B if you're trying to convince
us that a evolved to move faster than b
again we should be able to see it if we
see a quadruped that's moving visibly
faster than an evolved
hexapod we should be able to see that in
about 10 or 15 seconds and you've
convinced us of that
fact if you have any time remaining in
your 45 seconds for this section
show us a visualization to further
convince us like Darwin kill us with
data show us as much data as you
can but try and keep the verbal
explanation as short as possible if
you're verbally racing through these 45
seconds we're not going to be clear on
what we're looking at or what we're what
you want us to take away from your
videos or
image make sense okay this is kind of
the core of your contribution in your
fin fin project we're all
clear okay all right when you shoot this
video make sure that there is no sound
because when you submit this Silent
Video Monday night Tuesday morning
you're going to get up here in class in
the front of the class for 2 minutes and
30 seconds and you're going to verbally
narrate over your video there on the
left you see the random uh robot
behavior and here on the right you can
see the evolved Behavior now you can see
an evolved a on the left and an evolved
B on the right and as you can see B
evolved to jump higher than a that's
what we're looking for in the oral
presentation okay when you're making
this video by now you've obviously
created a lot of videos but you might be
composing multiple videos and multiple
images into your 2 minute and 30 second
uh video lots of screen capture and
video creation software out there I like
OBS it's free it's platform independent
and it's It's relatively easy to use but
we don't care use whatever you like um
no points will be deducted per for poor
video if you end up recording everything
on your phone and stitching the videos
on your phone together into a two and a
half video a two and a half minute video
that's fine we're not giving extra
points for production quality here but
if you do just make sure that the
quality of your video is good enough so
that we can see whatever it is you want
us to see in the video if you're trying
to show us that b jumps higher than a
make sure the video quality is good
enough that we can actually see that
remember that we're watching this video
on this screen and some of you are going
to be sitting in the back row so make
sure uh make sure things are large don't
create a video that takes up this amount
of real estate on the screen those
sitting in the back are probably not
going to be able to see it make
everything big if you do print any text
on the SL slides make it big make it big
okay all good all right by 11:59 p.m.
upload it to YouTube make it public not
for kids whatever it is make sure that
when we click on your link in bright
space we can see your video you're going
to upload your video to YouTube and then
copy and paste the URL into the into the
bright space submission
our long-suffering teaching assistant
Fria she is going to after midnight on
Monday start to stitch all of these 60
videos into one long playlist she's
going to do this between midnight and
7:30 in the morning on Tuesday FR is
going to be very tired at this point her
attention span is going to be relatively
low when she gets to your name in the
list and if she doesn't see your
submission in bright space she's going
to leave a blank slot in the playlist
and go on to the next one and you will
receive a 0% for your oral
presentation so there is no late policy
for submission of the oral presentation
for obvious
reasons you all heard that okay all
right all right that's Tuesday that's
Monday night let's talk about Tuesday
morning all right come to class 7:30
a.m. on Tuesday I will bring donuts and
coffee you bring uh your ability to
narrate for two and a half seconds over
your YouTube video Fair all right I will
post Tuesday Morning uh I will post on
the schedule and I will also write it
all out here on the board who is
presenting at what time please come to
class at 7:30 a.m. assuming that you may
be the very first one to present present
because you may be the very first one to
present if you are the very first one to
present please do stay for the entire
two hours and 45 minutes there will be
free coffee and donuts for you please do
your fellow students uh the uh the um uh
the um compliment of staying watching
what they've done all of you have done
some really amazing work I promise you
there are some hidden gems in these 60
final presentations
you're going to want to stay to the end
and see all the great work that your
fellow students have done okay at 7:30
in the morning I am going to press play
on the you on the playlist that frya is
going to create and then we are not
going to stop the playlist the playlist
is designed to run for 2 hours and 45
minutes don't worry I will build or FR
will build into the playlist two
10minute breaks at the hour mark and the
2hour mark Fair okay we've done this
several times now but it requires all of
us to do exactly what's written in this
document so everything runs smoothly the
train is going to leave the station at
7:30 in the morning and if you're not on
it you're not on it fair okay all right
like I said I will make the oral
presentation uh schedule available I'll
I'll embed it in the course schedule and
write it up here on the board for
Tuesday morning
again we're not going to stop the
playlist so when the student before you
in the list starts speaking please come
up to the front of the room and stand on
the far side of the screen so you're
immediately ready to go when the student
standing here finishes presenting her 2
minute and 30 second oral presentation
she will come around this way sit down
the next speaker will immediately come
here and start speaking as his video
immediately starts to play we are not
going to pause the
playlist Fair all
right okay uh like I said in order to
keep on time videos will play one after
the other with no pause in between two
10-minute breaks uh this means when your
video starts you should start speaking
immediately if you run long I'm going to
bring a long hook and I'm literally
going to pull you no I won't but if you
run long I will cut you off so that the
next student can start so practice
practice practice you have an you only
have a 2 minute and 30 second video so
in 20 minutes you can practice eight
times in a row it won't take you long to
memorize your narration get it down pat
watch yourself with the clock and you'll
be you'll be fine years ago I was
invited to give a talk at MIT the talk
was 30 seconds long and they put you up
on stage and they shut off the mic and
shut off the lights after 30 seconds
after you were done so I practice my
talk on the way on the 3 and 1 half hour
drive down to Boston with my
long-suffering wife in the car she had
to listen to this presentation every 30
seconds for three and a half hours this
happened about 15 years ago if she was
here she could probably narrate it for
you verbatim practice practice practice
it won't take you long to memorize it so
that you can keep to exactly two minutes
and 30 seconds okay
again I wish we had more time but we
don't so due to time constraints if you
have a question about one of your fellow
students presentations please go up and
ask them your question during the breaks
or after the final presentations end
you're all suffering through physics
engines and evolutionary algorithms and
robot neural controllers you should all
compare notes please do chat about what
worked and what didn't work amongst
yourselves during the breaks and after
the presentations all right final Point
here which I probably shouldn't even
have to mention uh please practice
collegiality during this time there will
be a temptation to tune out two hours
and 45 minutes is a long time to sit and
listen to
presentations uh I know you're all going
to be very tired next Tuesday you got a
lot of other demands on your attention
you've all put a lot of work in it uh a
lot of creative work so please practice
coll collegiality extend your fellow
students the respect they deserve by
watching and engaging with their
presentations by asking them questions
after and please do stay until the end
okay any questions about all that
crystal clear on what we're doing next
week okay
great all right so back to the last two
lectures of the class lectures 24 and 25
we're working our way through the final
theme of this course where we're looking
at investigators that broaden their
evolutionary algorithm so that
evolutionary algorithm was optimizing
VAR various aspects of the physical
structure and neural control policy of
the robots we looked at Carl sims's work
way back from the
90s on Rigid robots we got partway
through lecture 23 last time looking at
evolving bodies and brains for soft
robots we uh spent some we ended last
time by talking about the physics
underlying the particular softbed
simulator that is used in the
experiments we're about to see and this
is uh uh this is Vox crafter Vox CAD
just as a reminder everything we're
seeing in the simulations we're about to
see are a whole bunch of collections of
Cubes inside pairs of neighboring cubes
they are connected by a spring or if you
like you can think of it as a semi-
rigid beam each beam has associated with
it two sets of three tupal two sets of
three numbers the first three numbers
describe how the spring or the beam
resists pushing and pulling shearing
pulling or pushing and pulling forward
and back three numbers uh that are
determining how the spring resists
changes in X Y and Z between the pair of
Cubes that are attached by that spring
that's linear
stiffness sorry linear stiffness the K
subf here are a second set of three
numbers that dictate how that beam or
that spring
resists uh uh ya pitch and roll the the
pair of connected cubes twisting or
rotating relative to one
another we can set for any one of these
beams those six numbers to make it more
or less resistant to any one or more of
those six numbers everybody see that so
you could have for example one pair of
Cubes attached by a slinky something
that basically allows the two cubes to
move almost completely independently of
one another and simultaneously inside
the same soft robot made up of all these
cubes this Cube and this Cube could be
attached together with a steel girder
something that completely resists or
almost completely resists any change in
position or orientation of the connected
cubes relative to one
another so coming back to the simulation
here what are you seeing here among the
Red Cube
and among the blue cubes tell me about
linear and rotational
stiffness you obviously can't see the
beams let alone the actual parameters
associated with these
beams what's going on
here the darker colors the blue in the
middle has higher stiffness
and the red ones are connected with
stiffer beams or Springs everybody get
how this physics engine works okay all
right uh you can play around with it we
set up a a website for it uh this is
sort of the modern version of Vox cads
now called Vox craft because of course
we need to uh nod to Minecraft here it's
got a relatively easy to use uh
front-end user interface you can
actually in interactively construct a
robot so no evolutionary algorithm here
you can manually uh drop cubes into the
simulation let me speed it up a little
bit you can see someone creating a bunch
of connected cubes here and they've
chosen a particular color on the right
the color is telling the simulator how
to connect pairs of connected uh voxal
how strong or how weak to to make the
beams that connect pairs of connected
cubes you can see them laying down one
layer after another uh red is flexible
here and blue is
stiff they're setting some other
specific material properties of the
simulator of the
robot okay now they're going to simulate
the behavior this robot in the physics
engine tell me about the controller
inside this
robot we haven't said anything about the
controller yet we've only been talking
about how to simulate the physical
structure of this robot you're all now
experts in neural control of robots what
do you think's going on
inside this robot how is it being
controlled
Vol there's some volumetric oscillator
we've seen lots of oscillators now in
the neural controllers of these robots
those oscillators are also known
as CP cpg's Central pattern generators
so this is open loop control there is a
sinusoidal pattern that is being fed
into this robot no sensors and as cam
just said there's some volumetric change
so we've seen a lot of robots now with
rotational joints we've seen Wheels
we've seen little rockets on the space
invader robots from minimal cognition
now we're seeing a different form of
actuation there are some forces being
applied inside this robot that are
causing volumetric changes in this
robot what's going on here do you think
we've got this sinusoidal pattern that's
going up and
down what is going up and down when we
saw actuated rotational joints up and
down meant flexion and extension when we
looked at wheel wield robots higher or
lower numbers meant a faster or slower
spinning wheel when we saw the Rockets
higher or lower numbers meant more or
less Force being emitted by the rocket
what does higher or lower mean here in
the in the central pattern generators
I'm guessing higher is expanding and
lower is Contracting you're getting
there expanding and Contracting of
what bingo so in the user interface it
looks like it's drawn so that it looks
like the the cubes themselves are
increasing in decreasing in volume
that's just sort of the visual
representation of what's actually going
on under the hood which as you said is
those values in the cpg are setting or
changing the resting length of the
Springs that's one more detail of
Springs we I don't think we've mentioned
yet or we might have mentioned in
passing Springs have stiffness they have
damping they resist pushing and pulling
and twisting Springs also physical
Springs also have a resting length if
nothing is pulling or pushing or
twisting on them they will come to rest
at a default length I should have
brought an actual spring with me today
if we just put it on the table and
measured it it would have a length
that's its resting length
if we take a spring and cut it in half
and put a little piston in the middle
and that piston can expand and contract
we are in essence increasing or
decreasing the resting length of the
spring so in the robot you just saw in
the video the cpg is increasing or
decreasing the resting length of the
springs that connect neighboring voxels
together that's how actuation occurs in
the soft robots that are simulated in
Vox cab everybody see that
okay okay so now let's have a look at
some actual uh let's have a look at some
actual experiments as always we're going
to look mostly at
simulation but we have actually done
some recent work it's only a couple of
years old now where we actually built a
physical version of some of these
evolved soft robots in the physical
robot hopefully as you can see there
aren't Springs or beams connecting
neighboring cubes together these are
actual soft Hol cubes I have two of them
in my office on the other side of this
wall and of course I forgot to bring
them to class this morning my apologies
hopefully you can see from the images
here these are soft Hollow voxal they're
just filled with room temperature air
they're made from silicone so soft
rubber they're a little bit softer than
a bicycle tire basically you'll notice
there are some tubes that are coming out
of a couple of these voxels this is the
resting state of this little 1 two 3
four five voxal
robot we are neither pushing air in nor
pulling air out of this or this voxel
this this robot is at
rest same robot a few seconds later uh
off to the side there's a little hand
pump that a graduate student is holding
and they are pushing manually pushing
air into these voxels in exactly the
same way that you pump air into a
bicycle tire nothing fancy here on the
engineering
side here we are pulling air out and you
can see that the voxels decrease in
volume and they also B
a little bit this is a it becomes very
quickly a relatively complicated
physical material not easy to cross the
C tooreal Gap here we're working on it
okay so here's simulated softbots we've
just talked about how we simulate them
and here is how myself and my colleagues
are trying to instantiate them in
reality ongoing work
okay here is an attempt to build the
quadrip that you all are familiar with
now we can't seem to rid ourselves of
radially symmetric quadrupedal
robots you'll notice that there is
hopefully you can see there's just one
cable coming off here there is one grad
student one cable who is pulling and
pushing air into this thing and you
notice that more than one voxel is
expanding and then Contracting in volume
how what's going going on
here what's going on inside the robot do
you
think the individual
connect we got a whole punch and when we
started to put all these voxal together
we punched holes in a few of them took
two voxels that had facing holes little
bit of epoxy glue and stuck them
together so this robot has a vasculature
system when it inspires when it pulls
air into itself or it has air pushed
into itself that pressurized air starts
to flow through some of the holes in
neighboring voxels they don't all have a
hole in them but where there is that
pressurized air flows through the body
of the robot and you see it almost
literally
breathing it's not enough pressurized
air to get this thing to move again
we're working on
it
okay I will show you this uh sped up
video here what you're going to watch is
an
attempt an attempt by my former PhD
student Sam krigman to actually make uh
one of these soft physical soft robots
from scratch he just poured what's
called dragon skin into that cup it's
liquefied silicone which at a higher
temperature starts to set and solidify
here he is pouring some of this uh Li uh
dragon skin or this silicone soft rubber
in its liquid form into this little uh
mold it's going to cook it for a little
bit it's now heated up the pink dragon
skin that's in the mold has solidified
he's putting in a little bit more
liquefied dragon skin
spin it around a little bit to evenly
coat the five faces of uh each of the uh
wells in this mold exacto knife now that
the silicone has solidified he's going
to cut them out and we're going to have
a whole bunch of Cubes that have five of
their six
sides he's gluing them together and
we're now going to hole punch he already
hole punched a hole connecting some of
the there we go connecting some of the
neighboring voils together so here
here's Sam creating the vasculature
system for this soft
robot take a little bit more liquefied
dragon skin silicone create an even
layer of
it and now he's going to create the
sixth f face for these four
voxels add a little bit more for good
measure release it
from the remaining dragon skin put a
little uh air tube inside seal
everything up with more dragon skin
which solidifies into soft rubber
silicone put a few valves
on and there you go I will play the last
bit again slow
down sorry
and it walks kind
of
okay if you go to the Vox craft uh
website you to can build physical soft
robots all of the materials to do this
cost about 150 bucks you can get them
all from Amazon so if you're looking for
a do-it-yourself project this summer
there you go okay all right so assuming
we can evolve soft robots and then in
the not too distant future successfully
transfer them to reality why would you
want to do it so let's have a look at
the evolution of soft robots now um
Professor cheni here this is some of the
work he did as a graduate student we
just talked about the final project and
demonstrating or how to demonstrate
whether Evolution has occurred here you
go among these two gifts which is the
evolved
robot hopefully you can see it's the one
on the top you'll notice that whatever
this evolutionary algorithm is doing
it's able to alter the 3D geometry of
the robot it's placing some voxal in
different positions and you'll see some
of the voxels have different colors
which is always a reminder that the
underlying beams connecting those pairs
of neighboring voxal together are
stiffer or softer so color represents
material
properties okay how do we actually do
this Nick used this particular kind of
neural network that you see on the left
to paint the 3D geometry and material
properties onto these voxels what kind
of neural network is
this a compositional pattern producing
Network you remember we introduced cppns
which create a phenotype this is the
genotype over here is the phenotype over
here in this case we want to paint a
pattern into three-dimensional space so
we have this empty Cube we visit a bunch
of points inside this Cube and in this
case there are two output neurons for
the cppn the first output neuron
whatever that value is we round it to a
value that's either zero or one so the
first output neuron from the cppn is a
binary output neuron as we visit each
point in this Cube and feed in the X and
Y and Z coordinate we'll ignore the D
here for uh for our purposes today we
feed in X Y and Z if the value that
arrives at the output neuron is zero we
don't place a voxal there if we visit a
point inside this empty Cube we feed in
its XYZ coordinate and the output is a
one we do place a there so this cppn is
going to drop voxal inside this empty
Cube to construct the 3D geometry of our
soft robot while the cppn is dropping
cubes the second output neuron is
rounded by an activation function that
rounds that value to an integer that is
either 0 1 2 or three there are four
possible values for the second output
neuron
we are going to paint one of four colors
onto each dropped voxel and those four
integers are dictating the material
properties of that
Cube more specifically that that value
is dictating the stiffness or softness
of the beams that connect that voxel to
whatever neighbors that voxel
has so far so good okay so the
evolutionary algorithm that you're going
to see in a moment Nick started by
creating a population of random cppns
cppns with different cognitive
architectures different synaptic weights
he took each one of those cppns and
allowed it to construct something like
this and then took that structure and
dropped it into Vox CAD which simulated
how well that soft robot did at moving
from left to right should be pretty
familiar at this point okay here we
go all right uh what you're going to see
in a moment is a visual representation
of what these four colors do I'll just
pause this here for a
moment okay uh let's look at the blue
ones
so uh the light blue here is called Soft
support so these are soft voxels which
means any of the beams or Springs that
leave a light blue voxel do not resist
pulling or pushing or twisting by its
neighbors very much this is passive and
soft material this is not unlike uh fat
or other passive soft tissues in your
body they are pulled and pushed by other
things in the body of the soft robot
dark blue voxels here are hard support
these are voxels every a dark blue voxal
that you're going to see in a moment all
of the beams that leave dark blue voxels
those beams strongly resist any pulling
and pushing by neighboring
voxels red uh red and green
voils they have medium stiffness but
they also contract and
expand in this
case the cpgs that are going to exist
inside these soft robots the cpgs are
changing the resting length of the beams
leaving the red voxels and the cpgs are
also altering the resting length of the
green
voxels ah sorry
you'll notice that the red and green
voxels whenever a red voxel gets bigger
a green voxel gets smaller and
alternatively when a green voxel gets
bigger a red voxel gets
smaller so red and green are both muscle
but they're increasing and decreasing in
opposition to one
another we've actually seen that idea
already in this
course what what is that it's a type of
Bio inspiration here that's coming from
a particular detail of muscle physiology
that we've already talked about in this
class anybody remember where did we see
this
before do you remember the
anthropomorphic arm that was trying to
distinguish between spheres and
elliptical
objects what do you remember about the
muscles inside that arm
there were seven joints inside that arm
but there were 14 motor
neurons like the muscles can only pull
so they were in opposite direction mus
muscles can only pull so if I want to
push or extend my arm how do I do it
that's
Agonist Agonist and
antagonistic muscle groups so you can
literally
see you can literally see when the red
and green
voxels when the red and green voxels
when one of the red red voxels is
increasing in volume it's pushing
against its neighbors and at the same
time any green voxal are going to be
pulling on its neighbors so Nick made
available to The evolutionary algorithm
the ability ability to create Agonist
and antagonistic muscle groups if it's
helpful for the task of evolving soft
robots to move from left to
right here are some examples of evolved
robots here's one with uh dark blue
which is bone and light blue is passive
soft
material there's red and green so you
can see Agonist and antagonist there's
red and green again Agonist
antagonist there's just one giant ball
of muscle no bone no soft passive
tissue obviously the fitness function
here was to evolve Locomotion from left
to right let's actually watch one single
evolutionary
run here's the best cppn in the initial
random population here's the best cppn
at the second generation best cppn at
the third generation
and so
on you'll notice as we move forward in
evolutionary time we're jumping from
generation to generation and we're
seeing what pattern the most fit cppn in
the population is able to paint at that
point in evolutionary
time what's happening aside from
producing a very entertaining showreel
of robots here
What observations can you make about the
evolutionary process at least in this
run seems to be turning the
muscle perverse
instantiation kind of the task here is
to move from left to right as fast as
possible if you're able if you can be
built if you can be built from muscle
bone and and soft tissue you might as
well just be a all of muscle generally
speaking you'll see there are a few
solutions that still retain a little bit
of bone passive stiff material the dark
blue some of them actually do rely on
soft tissue here the light
blue but most of the time it seems The
evolutionary algorithm converged on Big
Balls of
muscle you can see the usefulness of
Agonist and antagonistic muscle groups
here it generally makes sense that when
one part of your body is pulling the
other part is pushing or at least when
one part is Contracting the other part
is
expanding
okay okay so that's how or at least one
way to evolve soft robots why would we
want to let's switch from the how to the
why we saw one reason why you might want
to evolve or automatically design into
deploy soft robots last time soft robots
can often get into places that are
difficult or impossible for rigid robots
to get so there's a very boring clear
obvious engineering reason to make soft
autonomous machines rather than rigid
autonomous machines but there may be
other less obvious reasons why you might
want to
make uh soft rather than rigid machines
here was our an attempt to demonstrate
one of those more subtle reasons why
soft robots might be advantageous over
rigid robots you might remember a rigid
robot from a few lectures back the uh
the evil starfish here if we eventually
want to deploy autonomous machines here
in the real world that work literally
alongside people those machines better
be able to handle surprise well when
they inevitably encounter something they
never saw during Evolution or during
training they want to be able you want
them to be able to adapt quickly and
easily you don't want them to do
something completely unexpected in the
case of the rigid robot when something
uh unexpected happens like for example
physical injury it loses one leg there's
one and only one way in which a rigid
machine can adapt to that kind of
surprise what is it
you're a rigid machine and you suddenly
lose one of your four legs what do you
do you have to retrain you retrain to
move in a different way yeah okay for
organisms that are unfortunate enough to
lose a tail or lose a limb they have
other options available to them what are
they they don't necessarily need to
retrain to figure out how to Hubble
Along on less legs although that is
still an option there's an additional
set of
options if you're made from soft
materials what is
it not so obvious right it's not
something actually that humans do very
well you readapt your structure you
readapt your structure not just your
brain you don't necessarily ret train
your neural controller to move in a new
way you can also adapt your physical
structure itself what are some examples
of that how can you adapt your physical
structure what's the most obvious way
you lose a
limb grow it back grow it back we don't
do it that well at least not in our
human form there is a eye-opening set of
studies about uh children that uh very
young children that unfortunately stick
their finger in a fan and lose the tips
of their fingers below a certain age
they grow them back so humans are
capable of a little bit of regeneration
but not that much so this is a little
bit of a digression but from a Soft
Robotics point of view if something
truly unexpected happens to a soft
robot it has more options available
about how to readapt to deal with
surprise they can adapt their control
policy they can learn how to move
differently or they can adapt their body
or both so in this particular study I'm
going to show you here that was the
question we asked if we Evol if we
create an evolutionary algorithm that
can alter body or brain and we then
injure a four-legged robot like cutting
off half of one leg or cutting off all
of one leg what does evolution do does
evolution leave the body alone and
retrain or re-evolve the controller or
does evolution change the body or does
evolution do
both here's a robot that's been cut in
half here's it running its pre-injured
controller doesn't work doesn't move
very
well that's kind of the best this robot
can do that's a pretty severe injury if
you lose half your
body oops what happened
here Sor right where did we get to
okay okay
there we
go okay here's a four-legged robot
that's going to suffer arguably an even
Grievous a more Grievous injury which is
we're going to cut off all four
legs and after cutting off all four legs
The evolutionary algorithm can adapt the
controller or the
Body Evolution chose in this case to
regenerate the lost legs at least as
best it
could not that that is necessarily the
best thing uh not necessarily that's the
best thing to do but again if we want to
create capable and safe robots here in
the real world we want to give them as
many options as possible to recover from
the completely uh
unexpected not surprisingly if you're a
soft robot it evolves the ability to
regenerate here's a different strategy
in this case again we cut off half of
the robot's body after seeing the
previous uh version of the previous
video we felt pretty confident what we
would do what the evolutionary algorithm
would do in this case it would either
figure out a way to retrain this
controller to get this two-legged robot
to move or The evolutionary algorithm
would figure out how to expand some of
the voxal to quote unquote regrow back
the two legs it's obvious what it's
going to
do thinking about thinking is misleading
in this case The evolutionary algorithm
chose to
retract the the uh remaining two legs
and revert to uh away from legged
Locomotion to an earlier form of
locomotion which is
remember our discussion about
Locomotion Mother Nature's pre preferred
way of
evolving uh strategies for organisms to
move from point A to point
B
peristalsis what you're watching is
actually the same neural controller that
controlled the four-legged robot so the
evolutionary algorithm found that it
doesn't actually need to change the
neural controller at all all it needs to
do is permanently change the resting
length in the feet to retract or shorten
those beams and that produces a wormlike
body which the controller that was
previously producing four-legged
Locomotion in a four-legged machine that
controller now produces peristaltic
Motion in an angua form or worm like
body for us at least this was a very
confusing result about the
interdependency between body and brain
uh from a technical standpoint are you
allowing it to change the material uh
the materials that every box is using
when Adry yeah great point no we didn't
allow it to stiffen or soften the
material but it would be great to redo
this experiment in that case the only
option available to The evolutionary
algorithm was tune how the cpg affected
the the the voxal the increase and
decrease in
voxels or change the permanent resting
length of the Springs make some of the
voxal permanently smaller or permanently
bigger okay so just our contribution to
the uh thought experiment about why we
might want to create soft machines
okay one other uh a couple other just
sort of smaller experiments I wanted to
demonstrate when we created this soft
bodied simulator uh we redid an older
CPU softbed simulator rid it for gpus
which allows us to simulate a very large
number of voxels once we had a GPU
accelerated softb simulator we asked
ourselves what's what could you do if
you could make make a robot from a very
large number of voxels
I don't think we're very imaginative for
us it's always quadrip heads in this
case it's quadrupeds all the way down
you can go check out some of our other
uh fractal robots on fractal robots.
github.io again aside from the answer
because we could why might you want to
evolve fractal
robots here's our attempt to answer this
question you'll notice on the left we
definitely have not worked out all of
the Kinks in our softbed simulator here
in this case we are evolving bodies and
brains for robots again we're setting
the 3D geometry and the material
properties uh of this little robot here
the fitness function is to move from
left to right as always in this form but
we evaluated uh each genotype twice the
genotype is a cppn that produced this
phenotype we measure the fitness of this
phenotype of this robot then we take the
same cppn the same genotype allow it to
reconstruct rebuild the structure but
put them put that structure together in
the same
way and how well does that fractal
version of this robot do at exactly the
same task which is move from left to
right
in this case you can see that this
particular cppn doesn't do a very good
job it discovers a robot that does well
on its own but when it's fractally
composed it does not do very
well here is a second fractal
robot a different genotype a different
cppn that's going to paint a soft robot
which again you see uh on the left here
and then the way in which that cpn's
paint that cppn paints individual voxal
we ask it to paint the same structure
again but now instead of painting with
voxels it's painting with
this this is a robot that is made up of
these robots in the same
pattern and we get a little bit of a
better result it's not ideal but that
same robot has the same structure at one
scale as it does at a different scale
and it has similar Behavior at different
scales so this robot is uh structurally
self-similar it has the same structure
at different scales and it is
functionally self similar it does
similar things at different
scales make
sense again aside from the fact that you
can do this why might you want to do
this why might we want to task
evolutionary algorithms with designing
fractal robots robots that can be
structurally composed together in
similar structures at different size
scales and when you do they do the same
thing uh yes that's part of the answer
it's kind of modular we've got a whole
bunch of these things and we can slot
them in but why specifically do we want
structurally and functional structural
and functional self-similarity do you
think why might this be
useful could it be like real world
manufacturing for real world
manufacturing why is this helpful for
real world manufacturing well it's
repetitive tire is easier to make if
it's repetitive it's easier to make so
as long as everything's made from the
same small set of Parts much easier and
more cost effective to
build but how does this help us with
again the long-term vision of making
capable and safe machines here in the
real
world one of them breaks
ORS oh we're getting kicked out say that
again a little bit louder if one of the
parts
breaks you get the net Behavior if one
part breaks off kind of but specifically
why fractal um you could reconfigure
them and have to R through something
else you could reconfigure them and have
them do something else in this case
we're after the opposite configure them
in the same way over and over again to
make a bigger and bigger robot and it
keeps doing the same
thing if we can get Evolution to design
a small robot that cleans up all the
garbage here maybe we can put a 100 of
them together outside and clean up all
the garbage on the quad do the same
thing clean up random detrius but at
different size scales who knows we'll
see our final class on Thursday we will
talk about xenobots you have a quiz due
tonight you're working on your final
project see you on Thursday